Hello, and welcome back to the Rawkode Academy.
I am your host, David Flanagan, also known
across the Internet as Rawkode.
And today is an episode of Rawkode Live,
the show where we take a look at
all the latest and greatest open source cloud
native projects.
And today is no exception. We are taking
a look at a project called Preq, as
you may have gathered from the intro music.
It's going to help us build and run more
reliable software. And our guest and host for
today is,
Tony.
Hey, man. How's it going?
Listen.
I don't think I'm blown away by that
song. Like, I think we should just put
that on a loop and make that the
lifestyle. That's incredible.
I'm doing great. This was like, that that
was amazing. That was hilarious. That was awesome.
Should we just quickly go ahead? I mean,
you know, that's that was amazing.
AI today in 2025.
What time? Like, the fact that that song
can be put together, and I don't even
need to know how to play a guitar
or anything. So it's a real no. It's
a real band. That's the community put that
together. Can we? Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. For
sure. Yeah. Yeah. Cool. No, it's awesome to
be here. I, your your podcast is amazing.
We were just talking earlier about the WASM,
the WASM podcast you did a couple of
days ago or weeks ago. It was
awesome to be here. Thank you for your
time.
Yeah. Thank you for joining me. So for
anyone who's not familiar with you and your
work, please take a little bit of time
just to say hello and tell them what
you've been up to. Yeah. So my name
is Tony. I'm a CTO at a company
called Prequel
and a maintainer of a tool called Preq.
Quick background from me is I spent my
first
ten years of my career
doing vulnerability and exploit development here in the
US at a place called the National Security
Agency. So I loved working there. The mission
was really fun,
really humbling experience.
You jump into the deep end, and it's
a very hard
job and but a fun mission.
But, you know, I don't know if this
is known widely, but the government can sometimes
be this, you know, big bureaucratic organization that
moves slow sometimes.
So I ended up leaving in 2014
to join a startup, so the opposite end
of the spectrum. And it was a company
called
Endgame, where we were building an endpoint security
product.
So I was there for for a while
as VP of engineering, and we ended up
selling that business to a company called Elastic,
the makers of Kibana and Elasticsearch.
Really big in open source, and that's kind
of how I got my first introduction into
working with open source communities. So I was
there for
quite a while doing
a VP of engineering, but
I still would find every excuse to cancel
a meeting, go jump on an incident or
not. I should go chase the bug. I
think it was probably chasing the first ten
years of my career.
I've always sort of been haunted by problems
in software and bugs and curious to
I think the best way to understand software
is when it breaks. And so we ended
up building a product to kind of help
practitioners, engineers figure out when their software breaks,
that's how we ended up on Preq.
Awesome.
Yeah. Lots of love there.
I've skipped over the government, alright. Okay.
You know, working on security is obviously gonna
teach you a lot. Working
with bugs, of course. I love that you
mentioned that, you know, software
does break and people are human and people
introduce bugs every single day and things go
wrong. And one of my shows called clustered
that I haven't done in a long time,
but I'd love to bring it back. People
always said, oh, the breaks are too contrived,
and the premise of the show was live
debugging. And I'm like, yeah. But people shouldn't
have to know this stuff. But when you
do, you do. Right? And it's like when
things go wrong, when things are broken, when
shit really hits the fan,
that has been you learn all these little
tiny nuggets of knowledge that you would never
learn under any book or other circumstance than
when things are on fire. And I think
that is a great way. And people should
embrace failures and bugs and all of this
stuff. But we have this
not that I wanna try and solve software
engineering as a community or anything, right? But
there's a stigma, and we need to kinda
get past that and be vulnerable and be
willing to make mistakes in public. And, yeah,
I wish more people would do that anyway.
Yeah. Yep. Totally agree. That's why I think
it's really cool that we're taking a look
at Preq by Prequel
founded by yourself on this show. So
what is Preq?
Yeah. I guess there's, you know, the short
version is
like, if you've ever written software or even,
you know, used it,
and and this could be, you know, SaaS
software or it could be Ubuntu,
whatever it is, you know, like we just
said, it inevitably breaks.
You know, all too often, you know, especially
if you're, you know, a maintainer or engineer
that has to support that software, even if
you're in customer success and you've, you know,
got a bunch of known issues with older
versions of software, know, when it breaks, you
often go on this hunt, and you're looking
through all of this data. You you start
with your investigation,
you know, hours, sometimes days later, you'll end
up like, oh, here's a known issue with
a bunch of other people that have run
into the same thing, and here's what they
did to fix it. And, oh, let me
try that. Okay. Cool. That fixed it. Now
let me put a detection in place.
And
that I don't like that world. That world's
not fun to live in. I mean, look.
I love doing investigations. I love it when
software breaks,
but it's always that bittersweet moment whenever you
find that issue that other people have seen.
I think Preq is sort of our
our vision is to kind of create a
world where if someone in the world has
seen this problem before,
that should be the last time. That first
time should be the last time. And then
we should start with that detection and share
that knowledge.
Kind of we call it reliability intelligence,
Common Reliability Enumerations.
But I think that's that's the goal of
Preq is how do you come up with
a way where you can start with a
detection first that actually shows you the problem
and the mitigation? Like, here's what the rest
of the community has done when they've seen
this problem.
Yeah. I love that. You're building
a library, a collective knowledge, if you will,
of
things that go wrong in software and allowing
people to detect that early upfront, a shift
left if you wanna throw in a corporate
buzzword, right? That is a a good mission,
a very noble mission indeed. Yeah. We're giving,
Sorry. I was just gonna say it's like
we're it's it's sort of a new idea
and reliability, but it's also an approach that
has worked really well in security for twenty
years because it was a similar situation
in the early 2000s where you would have
individuals chasing problems, but those problems were security